# What Can I Afford?

### What is the project about?
Purchasing a home can be a very confusing experience, especially for first time home buyers. Among the most complicated aspects of the process is determining what you can actually afford.  Beyond the simple list price of the house, there is a slew of other costs, some of which are obvious and others that are less so.  It can be very difficult to determine the true out of pocket cost of buying a home, especially when the type of home purchased can greatly affect the types and amounts of additional costs tacked on to the list price.  Because buying a home is such a big deal, it is vitally important that the prospective buyer can confidently predict what the closing costs for a purchase might be, and what kind monthly payments will be required after the deal is done.  From the retail cost of a mortgage, to typical 3rd party fees, to unpaid proptery taxes, to unexpected repair costs, to regular monthly municipal services, the list of additional expenses can grow quickly.  This can produce a debt load beyond the ability of the buyer to pay.  This app will help prospective home buyers avoid this unfortunate outcome by creating a detailed cost profile of a property and potential mortgage loan.  
By creating and saving an unlimited number of purchase profiles, users can closely compare the details of different properties and mortgage options.  They can even compare competing loan options on the same property to determine the optimal way to structure a mortgage.  The app will provide an simple and clean interface to help users fill in the most common details of a purchase profile.  This information can then be used automatically populate new profiles to save time.  From there, the app will help users dig deeper into the potential hidden costs of a property or loan.
Buying a home requires the sharing of lots of personal and private information.  To balance the needs of gathering sensitive information about personal finances to create accurate purchase profiles and guarding user privacy, the app will never ask for personally or financially  identifying data such as Social Security Numbers or bank account numbers.  The app will build accurate profiles from simple balance statements provided by the user pertaining to assets and debts.

### Why is the project being undertaken?
This is where the business rational will be explained.  Identify the needs of a class of users that is currently not being met.  Explain how the product of this project will fill those needs.  Avoid providing implementation details, unless they are inextricable from the needs being met.

### Who will be engaged in the project?
A list of stakeholders and participants is provided here.  It is not required that a full and comprehensive list of all stakeholders be given here, as this is likely to change over time through adaptive planning and product refinement processes.  The list of project participants should include all types of team members: designers, engineers, testers, project management staff, etc.  It is not unusual for the project staff to be hired after at later stages of the project as needed, or as resources become available.  It should be noted here when the project team has yet to be assembled.

### When will the project be undertaken?
Give a high-level view of the start and end dates of the project.  Progressive elaboration does not always provide a very exact end date due to the frequently high amount of change accepted in the product design.  However, there should be a relative understanding of the level of effort, within an order of magnitude, required to successfully complete the project.  If available, provide some high-level estimates of when major project milestones are expected, or required to occur.

### Where will the project be undertaken?
A brief description of work site requirements is provided here.  If the project team is virtual, explain how that will be arranged.  If the project team will be co-located, provide any known requirements about facilities.

### How will the project be undertaken?
A brief outline of the management and development approaches to be used on the project is provided here.  Establish a guideline for how those approaches will be followed.  Elaborate as necessary, but remember this is a primarily a conceptual document, not an enforcable contract.  Project details are subject to change.
